# DetectMe (Beacons) Sample app
--

The DetectMe sample app that introduces you to the beacon features of the ContextHub iOS SDK.

## Purpose
This sample application will show you how to create, retrieve, update, and delete (CRUD) beacons as well as respond to beacon in, out, and changed events events in ContextHub. ContextHub takes care of setting up and monitoring beacons automatically after creation and synchronization

## Background

A "beacon" is a Bluetooth LE device which broadcasts a unique value made up of a UUID, major value, and minor value anywhere between 10-1000ms at a time. When placed in specific locations known ahead of time, beacons can be used by devices to pinpoint their location in space in areas where traditional location based methods like GPS and WiFi triangulation may not be effective. 

Beacons have 4 important information fields that need to be programmed: UUID, major, minor, and name.
- UUID (Universally unique identifier): UUID is a 32-character hexadecimal id when used with iBeacon is typically set to be the same as a certain type or from a certain organization. For example, all iBeacons placed at a particular store location of your business would have the same UUID. UUIDs have a specific format and must be generated either using uuidgen from the [OS X Terminal](https://developer.apple.com/library/mac/documentation/Darwin/Reference/ManPages/man1/uuidgen.1.html) or on the [web](http://www.uuidgenerator.net).
- Major: This number identifies a group of beacons at a particular location. For example, all beacons on the 2nd floor or specific department of a particular location (with the same UUID) would have the same major value. This number is between 0 and 65536.
- Minor: This number uniquely identifies a specific beacon within a group of beacons with the same major value. For example, a beacon located next to the lobby would have a different minor value from a nearby elevator. Every beacon should have a unique combination of UUID, major, and minor value to distinguish between then. This number is between 0 and 65536.
- Name: Beacons are given human-readable names to easily distinguish between them. Names are not required to be unique (as uniqueness is determined by the UUID, major and minor value) however they are not allowed to have spaces.

## Sample Code

In this sample, most of the important code that deals with CRUDing beacons occurs in DMDetectBeaconViewController.m and DMEditBeaconViewController.m. Each method goes though a single operation you'll need to use `CCHBeaconService`. After each CUD operation, a synchronization call is made so that `CCHSensorPipeline` is up to date with the latest data. This method becomes unnecessary if you have properly implemented push as background notifications will take care of synchronization for you.

In addition, `DMDetectBeaconViewController` responds to any events created from the sensor pipeline through the `CCHSensorPipelineDidPostEvent` notification. At that point, you'll be able to filter whether the event was a beacon event which you were interested in and respond accordingly. There are several pre-defined keys that let you access information stored in an event, such as event name, state, type, etc..

## Getting Started

1. Get started by either forking or cloning the DetectMe repo. Visit [GitHub Help](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo) if you need help.
2. Go to [ContextHub](http://app.contexthub.com) and create a new DetectMe application.
3. Find the app id associated with the application you just created. Its format looks something like this: `13e7e6b4-9f33-4e97-b11c-79ed1470fc1d`.
4. Open up your Xcode project and put the app id into the `[ContextHub registerWithAppId:]` method call.
5. Build and run the project on your device (iBeacons do not work using the iOS Simulator).
6. You should see a blank table view (as no beacons have been entered yet!)

## Xcode Console

1. This sample demo will log events into the debug console to get an idea of the JSON structure posted to ContextHub. Use shortcut `Shift-⌘-Y` if your console is not already visible. It will also update the status of each beacon's state once entered in ContextHub in either the app or via the developer portal.
2. You should see the message "CCH: Device has successfully registered your application ID with ContextHub".
3. Within the application delegate are 4 methods defined by the `CCHSensorPipelineDataSource` and `CCHSensorPipelineDelegate` which allow you hook into the pipeline of events generated by the device sensors. You can get notified when an event will post and has been posted, as well as control if an event should be posted and add extra payload data to an event. These 4 methods allow a lot of flexibility in controlling what events get sent to the server.
4. Check out the ContextHub [documentation](http://docs.contexthub.com) for more information about the event service.

## ContextHub.com

1. The real power of ContextHub comes from collecting and reacting to events posted from devices onto the server. Go to the [developer portal](https://app.contexthub.com) and click on your DetectMe app to access its data.
2. Click on the "Beacons" tab.  Here is a list of beacons that are present in your application. Since the beacon UUID is in a specific format, it is often easiest to enter them on a computer rather than a phone. From here you can create, update, and delete beacons. Use any number of the UUID generators on the [web](http://www.uuidgenerator.net) or UUIDgen in [OS X Terminal](https://developer.apple.com/library/mac/documentation/Darwin/Reference/ManPages/man1/uuidgen.1.html) to make a UUID, enter a major value (0-65536), minor value (0-65536), and a tag of "beacon-tag". Tags are a way to group similar ContextHub objects together during CRUD events as well as activating a specific group of objects on a user's device via subscriptions. 
3. Make a beacon with the following information then click save: 
```
UUID: B9407F30-F5F8-466E-AFF9-25556B57FE6D
Major: 100
Minor: 1
Tag: beacon-tag
```


## Creating a New Context

1. Next click on the Contexts link which will take you to the "Contexts" page. Contexts let you change how the server will respond to events triggered by devices. Let's go ahead and create a new context.
2. In the "Contexts" tab, click the "New Context" button to start making a new rule.
3. Enter a name for this context which will be easy for you to remember. For now, name it "Beacon In".
4. Select the `"beacon_in"` event type. Now any event of type `"beacon_in"` will trigger this rule. You can have multiple rules with the same event type, which is why the name of events should be descriptive of the rule.
5. The Context Rule text box is where you can write a rule telling ContextHub what actions to take in response to an event triggered with the specific event type. This code is Javascript, and you have access to some context objects: event, push, vault, http, and console. For now, put `true` the code box blank and then click save.
6. Create `"beacon_out"` and `"beacon_changed"` rules as well in the portal. A rule must exist in ContextHub.com before a device will generate that specific event type automatically, so this is necessary to get those type of events to fire as well.

## Detecting a beacon

1. Now that we have our rules set up, we can test out the beacon detecting functionality. When testing, it's easiest to use an app rather than a real becaon as the range is often quite high (50 meters), making it difficult to test beacon in/out events at your computer.
2. Run the app on your iOS device connected to Xcode. You should see the same beacon you entered into ContextHub appear in the table view with a state of "Out" in red.
3. Using the Locate iBeacon app on another iOS device with Bluetooth 4.0, create the same beacon as before (see above) so it can pretend to be a beacon. Turn on the beacon.
4. A couple of things should have just happened. First, a `beacon_in` event should have then been triggered in your Xcode debug console with the JSON representation of the event. The beacon state in the table view should have then gone from "Out" in red to "In" in green as a response to that event. Lastly, if you moved the either device after the beacon was turned on, a `beacon_changed` event should have also fired, meaning we have ranging information of the beacon with the proximity state now saying approximately how far away the test device is (immediate - within 6 inches, near - with 12 inches, far - within 50 meters).

## Adding more beacons

At this point, you can add more beacons assuming you have either test devices or real beacons using either the web or the app. Entering in a UUID via the app is tricky, but the code exists there to show you how to create beacons programatically via the ContextHub SDK.

## Usage

##### Creating a beacon
```objc
// Creating a beacon region with name "Beacon", tag "beacon-tag"
NSString *name = @"Beacon";
NSString *uuidString = @"B9407F30-F5F8-466E-AFF9-25556B57FE6D";
NSUUID *uuid = [[NSUUID alloc] initWithUUIDString:uuidString];
CLBeaconMajorValue major = 100;
CLBeaconMinorValue minor = 1;
NSString *beaconTag = @"beacon-tag";
[[CCHBeaconService sharedInstance] createBeaconWithProximityUUID:uuid major:major minor:minor tags:@[beaconTag] competionHandler:^(NSDictionary *beacon, NSError *error) {

    if (!error) {
        // Standard CLBeaconRegion class
        CLBeaconRegion *createdBeacon = [CCHBeaconService regionForBeacon:beacon];

        // If you do not have push properly set up, you need to explicitly call synchronize on CCHSensorPipeline so it will generate events if it applies to this device
        [[CCHSensorPipeline sharedInstance] synchronize:^(NSError *error) {

        if (!error) {
            NSLog(@"DM: Successfully synchronized with ContextHub");
        } else {
            NSLog(@"DM: Could not synchronize withContextHub");
        }
    }];

    // The beacon dictionary also contains useful information like the id and tags of the beacon stored in ContextHub
    // It is recommended you make a custom class that wraps that information to make it easier to access
    // The DetectMe sample app creates the DMBeacon class and can act as a model for your own classes
    } else {
        NSLog(@"Could not create beacon %@ on ContextHub", name);
    }
}];
```

##### Retrieving beacons via a tag
```objc
// Getting all beacons with the tag "beacon-tag"
NSString *beaconTag = @"beacon-tag";
[[CCHBeaconService sharedInstance] getBeaconsWithTags:@[beaconTag] completionHandler:^(NSArray *beacons, NSError *error) {

    if (!error) {
        for (NSDictionary *beaconDict in beacons) {
            CLBeaconRegion *beaconRegion = [CCHBeaconService regionForBeacon:beaconDict];
        }
    } else {
        NSLog(@"Could not get beacons from ContextHub");
    }
}];
```

##### Retrieving a beacon via an ID
```objc
// Getting a beacon with a specific ID
NSString *beaconID = @"1000";
[[CCHBeaconService sharedInstance] getBeaconWithId:beaconID completionHandler:^(NSDictionary *beacon, NSError *error)completionHandler {

    if (!error) {
        CLBeaconRegion *beaconRegion = [CCHBeaconService regionForBeacon:beacon];
    } else {
        NSLog(@"Could not get beacon from ContextHub");
    }
}];
```

##### Updating a beacon
```objc
// Updating a beacon with the name "Beacon 2" and adding the tag "park"
// In order to update a beacon, you need to pass in a dictionary with the same dictionary structure as from either the create or get methods
// Note, this is where a custom class is very helpful in taking the information in a CLBeaconRegion (which is marked partly read-only by Apple) and updating it
// See DMBeacon in DetectMe sample app for more information
NSString *name = @"Beacon 2";
NSString *uuidString = @"B9407F30-F5F8-466E-AFF9-25556B57FE6D";
CLBeaconMajorValue major = 100;
CLBeaconMinorValue minor = 1;
NSString *beaconTag = @"beacon-tag";
NSString *beaconTag2 = @"park";
NSDictionary *beaconDict = @{ @"id":beaconID, @"major: major, @"minor:minor, @"uuid": uuidString, @"tags":@[beaconTag, beaconTag2] };
[[CCHBeaconService sharedInstance] updateBeacon:beaconDict completionHandler:^(NSError *error) {

    if (!error) {
        NSLog(@"Updated beacon in ContextHub");

        // If you do not have push properly set up, you need to explicitly call synchronize on CCHSensorPipeline so it will start/stop generate events if it applies to this device
        [[CCHSensorPipeline sharedInstance] synchronize:^(NSError *error) {

            if (!error) {
                NSLog(@"DM: Successfully synchronized with ContextHub");
            } else {
                NSLog(@"DM: Could not synchronize withContextHub");
            }
        }];
    } else {
        NSLog(@"Could not update beacon in ContextHub");
    }
}];
```

##### Deleting a beacon
```objc
// Deleting a beacon takes the same NSDictionary structure as updating one
[[CCHBeaconService sharedInstance] deleteBeacon:beaconDict completionHandler:^(NSError *error) {

    if (!error) {
        NSLog(@"Deleted beacon in ContextHub");

        // If you do not have push properly set up, you need to explicitly call synchronize on CCHSensorPipeline so it will stop generate events if it applies to this device
        [[CCHSensorPipeline sharedInstance] synchronize:^(NSError *error) {

            if (!error) {
                NSLog(@"DM: Successfully synchronized with ContextHub");
            } else {
                NSLog(@"DM: Could not synchronize withContextHub");
            }
        }];
    } else {
        NSLog(@"Could not delete beacon in ContextHub");
    }
}];
```

##### Response
Here is what a response from create and get calls looks like:
```
{
    id = 5989;
    uuid = "B9407F30-F5F8-466E-AFF9-25556B57FE6D";
    major = 100;
    minor = 1;
    name = ChaiOne;
    "tag_string" = "beacon-tag";
    tags =     (
        "beacon-tag"
    );
}
```

That's it! Hopefully this sample application showed you that working with beacons in ContextHub can lead to more contextually aware applications in a shorter period of development time.